---
layout: post
title: "Mind the Gap"
date: 2024-08-19
---

<p>Hey all,</p><p>I hope you've had a good two weeks. This week, I have a couple of thoughts/pieces of advice - specifically focused on gaps people create between what they think is important and what's important.</p><hr><p>For example, when communicating, what's conveyed is sometimes more important than your intentions. </p><ul><li>As a result, you must also focus on your body language and how you're saying things when giving a speech, presentation, or even communicating with a partner.</li></ul><p>Another example is that when people judge you, they care more about whether what you're doing makes sense to them than if it's efficient or makes sense in context. </p><ul><li>As a result, if you're selling something or explaining yourself, it may be better to go with a simple story rather than justifying a process that you will have to teach people about </li></ul><hr><p>In the end, what I'm getting at is that people mostly only care about what affects them at the moment. </p><ul><li>Like, I'm sure you'll find it's much easier to be empathetic and wish the best for someone you slightly dislike when their actions don't directly impact you any more. </li></ul><p>However, to be a good partner, salesman, speaker, or in general, good at interacting with people - you have to think about which perspectives matters to you. It's not simply enough to consider other perspectives or acknowledge they exist. </p><p>You have to change your behavior and cater to those perspectives that matter - whether that be your perspective, your spouse's, the customer's, the reader's, the listener's, or someone else. And remember, those perspectives carry different biases - and more biases than you may think.</p><p>Have a great week!</p><p>-Ethan</p>
