---
layout: post
title: "On scheduling and posture adjustments."
date: 2024-04-08
---

<p>Hello everyone,</p><p>Bit of a short post this week because I'm having a bit of trouble coming up with new ideas for productivity. Maybe I should try spurring some better conversations, but I also think I've done a pretty good job posting about all the ideas I believe in. So, maybe I'll start reading and talking more, and we'll see where things go from there.</p><p>Anyway, instead of anything super well fleshed out, I have a few random tips I've seen online and think are useful.</p><hr><h3 id="scheduling-time">Scheduling Time</h3><p>This one's inspired by James Clear and his blog <a href="https://jamesclear.com/3-2-1/april-4-2024">3-2-1 Thursday</a>:</p><ol><li>In an ideal world, you should never wonder "What should I be doing right now?"<ol><li>What I mean by this is that when you're focused and have planned your time correctly, you'll never have to wonder if there's anything better for you to be doing with your time.</li><li>Of course, you can and should ask yourself why you're doing every task you're doing, <strong>but if you want to be as effective as possible your tasks should motivate you.</strong></li><li>For example, if you or I had a busy day where we finished some work, hung out with friends, went to the gym, chatted with our parents, and did some scientific research, we would never have to wonder if there was anything better we could've done.<ol><li>In this way, life becomes (as Clear puts it): "a beautiful tapestry" where every task and decision aligns with our goals, values, and idea of happiness.</li></ol></li></ol></li></ol><p>So, ask yourself, how much of your day is fluid? How much of it is effortless? And how can you change your tasks, schedule, or outlook on each project so that life feels like jumping from one hit to another?</p><hr><h3 id="posture-adjustments">Posture Adjustments</h3><p>This tip is inspired by<em> </em><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vobLTc8Zd1Q&amp;t=460s"><em>struthless </em></a>on YouTube.</p><ol start="2"><li>Start incorporating more "posture adjustments" into your life.<ol><li>These are moments where you can unconsciously adjust parts of your life like your posture, focus, emotions, health, etc.</li><li>The example given in this YouTube video is setting up your car's mirrors only to work well when you're sitting straight up - meaning that anytime you've started to slouch throughout the day, you get a reminder that "yeah, maybe I should be sitting up straight."</li><li>The funny thing is, you can do this with other aspects of your life too.<ol><li>Imagine a sign on your door that asks if you've eaten fruit today.</li><li>Or a book on your bedside reminding you to read.</li></ol></li></ol></li></ol><p>So, is there anywhere in your home you can remind yourself of a habit worth doing?</p><hr><p>See you next week,</p><p>-Ethan</p>
