---
layout: post
title: "Kindness and Connections"
date: 2024-01-15
---

<p>Hey all,</p><p>I hope to keep this one short because I've got a lot of work this week, but I wanted to talk a bit about how I've been trying to connect with people at college.</p><p>What spurred this topic on is that with the new quarter, I've been seeing different people than I usually see in my routines, and in turn, I've been hanging out with people I never saw that often in the past. However, one pattern I've noticed from the people I've been hanging out with is that they've all been at least somewhat friendly to me in the past.</p><p>And, reflecting on this now, it's pretty funny to me that I've made these connections because people always talk about making connections in college through parties, clubs, or other events when all my friends had to do was be kind, open, and friendly.</p><p>So, that's my lesson for today: <strong>be kind, open, and friendly (maybe talk a decent amount too, and be positive).</strong></p><p>Because in today's day and age, you don't need to make a big impression to make someone want to work with you. For example, I have a couple of friends I've only ever talked to by coincidence who are such kind, positive people to be around that one day, if they asked me on LinkedIn for a job recommendation or other small favor, I'd give it to them.</p><p>It's nice and a bit funny because I know so many students around me are out seeking connections so fervently that they forget to be kind or even look like they're having fun with the people they're hanging out with. </p><p>And I think those people will find it hard to get others to like or want to work with them, which is a big part of being at a company and/or getting rich. </p><p>So, my big takeaway is that I want to be kinder and put positivity out there more. I want to walk around, spend time in new environments, smile more, and be and look positive because I want people to work with me, challenge my assumptions, and make me a better student and person (plus if they could get me a job that's pretty cool too).</p><p>Thanks for reading, and have a great week!</p><p>-Ethan</p>
