---
layout: post
title: "Exploring What's Possible and Making Time for What's Important"
date: 2024-04-29
---

<p>Hello everyone, </p><p>I'm feeling under the weather this week so this post may be slightly short. I have a couple of ideas I'd like to share.</p><hr><h3 id="1-dont-make-goals-or-start-missions-without-knowing-whats-out-there-first">1. Don't make goals or start missions without knowing what's out there first.</h3><p></p><p>I've been thinking a bit this week about what I'd like to accomplish this week, and I had thought that I had no idea what's even possible with humanity's current technology in the realms of AI, robotics, engineering, or software development. </p><p>That, to me, seems like a big mistake. So, I'm going to try to make more time this quarter to attend lectures from professors who travel to Northwestern and talk about new technology and developments.</p><p>Nowadays, there's so much information out there that it can be hard (even if you're just trying to get a job) to know what the world needs. <strong>So, be safe, do your research, and then set your goals. That way, you'll have better odds of finding some niche you can fill or something people desperately need.</strong></p><hr><h3 id="2-if-youre-pressed-for-time-learn-to-steal-moments-to-work-on-your-goals">2. If you're pressed for time, learn to steal moments to work on your goals. </h3><p></p><p>Often, you don't need a whole day to do something that will benefit you in 10 years. Even if it's 1 hour, 30 minutes, or 5-10 minutes, progress towards a portfolio or project is still progress. </p><p>Plus, these moments really compound. Every time you find 30 minutes to work on a goal or project, finding the next 30 minutes becomes easier. The tasks you once thought would take 3 hours can be squeezed into 2 hours and 30 minutes when you've used 30 minutes for something important. </p><p>Lots of things become more flexible when you're motivated - and motivation often comes from doing something you want to - even if it's for a short time.</p><hr><p>That's all I've got for today.</p><p>See you next week!</p><p>-Ethan</p><p></p>
