---
layout: post
title: "Greatness"
date: 2024-01-22
---

<p>Hello everyone,</p><p>I was having a lot of different conversations this week about progress and striving to be a "successful" person, so I want to pose this question to you all:</p><p><strong>What makes you want to be "successful" (if you even want to be traditionally successful), and what does success mean to you?</strong></p><p>Because, at least for me, I know I'd like to be successful because I'd like to have the freedom to do what I want to while making the world a better place and setting up my kids for a good life themselves.</p><p>However, I'm not sure what success looks like past making a decent (or more than decent) living. For example, growing up with technology around me my whole life, I know I idolize Youtubers and influencers to some extent (at least the educational/helpful ones). So, it might be pretty fun for me to entertain and educate people about engineering topics.</p><p>However, another part of me wants to make a "bigger" impact by using my academic talents more. For example, I could see myself starting a company one day or working towards being an upper-level manager. However, again, I'm unsure how much that would fulfill me if I didn't feel I had good, creative ideas.</p><p>In the end, though, I think I'm okay with saying "I don't know" for now. I think I'll be okay striving to dabble in all my aspirations one day because I'm confident I can work a job and make videos or start whatever side hustle I want.</p><p>So maybe that's the second lesson of today:</p><p><strong>It's alright to settle with uncertainty if you work towards who you want to be and execute your dreams when the time comes.</strong></p><p><strong>Then again, maybe the best time to act on your dreams is right now. I'm not sure.</strong></p><p>Anyway, thanks for reading my ramblings this week. I hope you enjoyed it, or at least thought more about your dreams, and when you'll start working toward them. </p><p>See you next week!</p><p>-Ethan</p>
