---
layout: post
title: "Personal Projects, Consistency, and Keeping Things Fun"
date: 2024-02-12
---

<p>Hey all,</p><p>Quick blog post because I've been pretty unproductive and have a lot of work to do. Maybe I should go back through the catalog to take some of my advice.</p><p>Anyway, here are three quick ideas:</p><ol><li>Unlike habits, projects need a minimum time/effort level required to keep them relevant. At least for me, if I can't dedicate at least a two-hour time block somewhere per week toward a project, it's a sign I should either drop it or cut back on something else I'm doing. Simplicity is key. Keep the amount of projects you're working on low and focus hard on them.<ol><li>It's okay to shelve something for in the present until you feel you have the time to work on something and have fun with it.</li></ol></li></ol><hr><ol start="2"><li>Don't underestimate the power of simply "staying alive" in your endeavors, investment strategy, and general life.<ol><li>This doesn't hold up as much for careers - there's no guarantee that companies will give you enough raises to make you successful - even if you are a valuable employee. Save the consistency for your dreams, not someone else's.</li><li>However, it is true that if you buy and hold - never having to take money out of the stock market, you'll make more than if you have to exit because of poor planning or a market crash. </li><li>Similarly, if you consistently work towards something, you will become good at it. Maintaining that positive trajectory for a long time is all that's required to become an expert. So be okay with the days you're just "keeping it moving" or just getting by (as long as those days aren't so numerous you want to quit).</li></ol></li></ol><hr><ol start="3"><li>The power of consistency is why it's so important to keep your projects fun. Do anything to keep the meaningful, valuable things you're doing fun and important to you.<ol><li>Don't run someone else's race. Odds are, they can run it longer than you can.<ol><li>And remember, if you are on the wrong path, analyze the situation well and quit fast. Find that balance so you aren't quitting prematurely or wasting your time.</li></ol></li></ol></li></ol><hr><p></p><p>Anyway, that's all I have for this week. I hope you learned something, enjoyed reading, or were pushed to think deeper about your routines or personal endeavors.</p><p>Thanks for reading, and have a great week!</p><p>-Ethan</p>
