---
layout: post
title: "Museums and Your Future"
date: 2024-02-19
---

<p>Hey all, </p><p>This week, I decided to go to a museum on my own for the first time. It was a strange experience, wholeheartedly seeking out this attraction I used to hate as a kid. Here are some highlights of what I've learned:</p><hr><p><strong>1. Museums allow you to focus, form your opinions, and think about how you.</strong></p><p>The atmosphere of a museum provides a unique opportunity to experience something without any outside stimuli. It's very nice to look at people's artwork and try to form my own opinions on it, even if I have no idea what anything is supposed to mean. </p><p>It's a strange sort of focus that you only experience when you're seeing something new for the first time. No one's telling you what to think, you don't have any preconceived notions of the art, and you have the space to lazily think about how artists feel when they create their art. </p><p>In that way, a museum <strong>leaves you alone but never makes you feel lonely</strong>. The thoughts and feelings of so many people are on display to you, which makes it much easier to think about how you feel in the moment. You have that space to sit beside yourself and think about what the artist was thinking and about what's on your mind in life.</p><ol start="2"><li><strong>Nowadays, I care more about people's feelings, hopes, and dreams.</strong></li></ol><p>As I've grown older, I've developed more and more appreciation for art, but I had a hard time determining why. Now, I think the reason is that I've started to pay more attention to people than new experiences. As a kid, I wanted to do new things, see new places, and, at a superficial level, meet new people. There was a fundamental drive to discover new places, things, or people's personalities. </p><p>However, I'm becoming more aware of my drive to be connected with others. It's weird. Like, I swear I'm normal. I make friends just based on who's fun to talk to, but I also want to hear about people's dreams and watch them grow as I do. And I want to give people born in the future that same opportunity. </p><hr><p>Anyway, uh, what did we learn today? I'm not sure, but I know I came to some pretty profound realizations alone at the museum, so maybe if you do the same, you can too.</p><p><strong>Just think about how you and others feel.</strong></p><ul><li><strong>What are your goals? </strong></li><li><strong>How have you changed in the last 5-10 years? </strong></li><li><strong>How would you like to change?  </strong></li><li><strong>How can the feelings of people around you positively inform your ideas, hopes, or dreams? </strong></li></ul><p><strong>Immerse yourself in your thoughts and drive yourself in the direction that will make you most happy.</strong></p><p>Anyways, that's all for me. I hope this post made you think a little. Have a great week!</p><p>-Ethan</p>
