---
layout: post
title: "Going All In"
date: 2024-08-04
---

<p>Hey all,</p><p>Sorry for the long break, wasn't feeling it last week, so I decided not to write anything. But in the spirit of not missing habits twice, I'm here this week with just one question:</p><p><strong>When was the last time you saw someone achieve something truly great without obsessing over it?</strong></p><p>I ask because, for all we like to discuss the need for balance, I think we sometimes overlook the power of being obsessed with something. Like, even if you wake up early, eat healthy, and go to the gym every morning, what is it all for if you're not giving your all to get that promotion or start that company?</p><p>They say:<strong> look good, feel good, play good, but the expectation there is that the last step is the one you have to focus on the most. </strong>Of course, that doesn't mean you have to drop all the other things (like hobbies or exercise) that give you the energy to do your best work, but maybe they shouldn't be your main focus. Sometimes, it's alright to show up to the gym, put some work in, and move on to whatever endeavor means a lot to you - whether that be your sports career, your art, your research, or getting ahead in your job. </p><p>Verdict: <strong>Strive for balance so long as those activities allow you to feed energy into your main goals. Past that, your energy would be better used directly on your life's work</strong> - rather than on a proxy activity to make you feel slightly better.</p><p>Anyways, that's all I've got for this week. See you next Sunday!</p><p>-Ethan</p>
