---
layout: post
title: "Fear"
date: 2024-04-01
---

<p>Hello Everyone, </p><p>Sorry for the lack of a post last week, I was traveling and felt my time was better spent elsewhere. </p><p>Anyway, I wanted to talk about something that has been bothering me recently: procrastination. Now, don't get me wrong, I've always procrastinated and I think everyone to some extent procrastinates. But this week has been especially bad.</p><p>And I think I'm feeling this way because I'm scared of something: feeling bored, incapable, or like I will not accomplish my goals. It's an interesting problem to think about.</p><hr><p>I've also noticed that I often feel more unproductive when unsure about how well I'll do in something: when I feel like I have to take risks, I'm taking new classes, or I'm doing something I haven't done in a while. I think I've lost a little of the little kid feeling of invincibility I once had.</p><p>It's almost like I'd rather sit and play games, soothe myself, and mess around than find out whether I can reach my "full potential" or show people my capabilities.</p><hr><p>So, I think it all begs the question: how do I get out of what I'm feeling? How can I (and also you guys) feel more capable, and in turn, more empowered to work on what we need to work on?</p><p>Like, I want to translate my pragmatic feeling that I'm capable into a core belief that I'm capable. Deep down I need to feel like I can do anything even when I look at something and I'm completely clueless. </p><p>I think a big part of this transition will be more practice. It's part of the reason I'm writing this blog right now - practicing my writing in a stream-of-consciousness style that will help me write more and become more comfortable just writing bullshit and revising later. </p><p>I need to refine my thinking around risk, transitioning from "everything needs to be perfect" to "f*** it we ball, I can always fix it later."  </p><p>In addition, I probably need to start focusing on my life as a whole, because I think it's hard to feel confident when you feel physically weak, out of shape, etc. </p><hr><p>Anyway, those are my thoughts for this week (and kind of a mini check-in on my New Year's Theme/Resolution). I hope that over the next few weeks, I can continue taking risks and become more comfortable with things outside my comfort zone. </p><p>In addition, I'd like to reclaim some of that feeling of capability and strength I've lost internally, and I hope you guys can do the same.</p><p>See you next week,</p><p>-Ethan</p><p></p>
